      Slurm Banking is a feature within the Slurm workload manager that allows for the allocation and tracking of resource usage against specific 
      accounts, enabling fair resource distribution and usage accountability. This system is particularly useful in multi-user, multi-group 
      environments where resources such as CPU hours, memory, and GPU usage need to be managed and allocated efficiently. 


    -  Key Concepts of Slurm Banking
      1.  Accounts and Associations:
                Accounts: Represent entities (e.g., departments, projects, or groups) to which resources are allocated.
                Associations: Define the relationships between users, accounts, and resources. Each user can belong to one or more accounts, 
                and associations can have specific resource limits or priorities.

      2.  Fairshare:

                Fairshare Factor: A metric used by Slurm to prioritize job scheduling based on historical resource usage. Users or accounts 
                that have consumed fewer resources recently are given higher priority.
                Fairshare Tree: A hierarchical structure representing the accounts and their associations, which is used to calculate fairshare 
                factors.
                
      3.  Limits and QoS:

                Resource Limits: Constraints on the amount of resources (e.g., CPU hours, memory) an account or user can consume.
                Quality of Service (QoS): A mechanism to define different levels of service for jobs, which can include limits on job runtime, 
                priority adjustments, and other scheduling policies.

      4.   Accounting and Reporting:

                SlurmDBD: The Slurm Database Daemon (SlurmDBD) is responsible for managing accounting records and providing interfaces for 
                querying resource usage.
                Accounting Tools: Tools such as sacct and sreport are used to generate detailed reports on resource usage and enforce accounting
                policies.


     -   Setting Up Slurm Banking
       1.  Configuration:

         slurm.conf:
              The main configuration file where you define general Slurm settings, including enabling the accounting storage.
              AccountingStorage: Set up the accounting storage backend, typically using AccountingStorageType=accounting_storage/slurmdbd.
              SlurmDBD Configuration: Configure the Slurm Database Daemon with appropriate database settings (e.g., MySQL or MariaDB).

       2.  Creating Accounts and Associations:

              sacctmgr: The Slurm Account Manager tool is used to create and manage accounts and associations.
    
              sacctmgr add account name=project1 Description="Project 1"
              sacctmgr add user name=jdoe account=project1   

       3.   Defining Fairshare Policies:

              Fairshare Configuration: Define fairshare policies in the slurm.conf file to ensure equitable resource distribution.
              
              PriorityType=priority/multifactor
              PriorityWeightFairshare=100000

       4.     Enforcing Limits and QoS:

                sacctmgr: Use the sacctmgr tool to set resource limits and QoS for accounts and users.
                
                sacctmgr modify account name=project1 set GrpCPUMins=100000
                sacctmgr create qos name=highpriority MaxWall=24:00:00



     - Benefits of Slurm Banking
           Resource Accountability: 
                          Ensures that resources are allocated and used according to predefined policies, promoting fair usage.
           Prioritization: 
                          Uses fairshare policies to prioritize jobs based on historical usage, helping to prevent resource hogging.
           Flexibility: 
                          Allows administrators to set up complex hierarchies and policies to manage resource allocation effectively.
           Reporting: 
                          Provides detailed usage reports to track resource consumption and aid in capacity planning and billing.
                
                
