-  A link in  UNIX is a pointer to a file like pointers in any programming languages , link , in UNIX are pointers pointing to a file or a directory.
-  creating links is a kind of shortcuts to access a file.
-  links allow more than one file name tom refer to the same file , elsewhere

        there are 2 types of links
        a) soft-links or symbolic links
        b) hard links

-  these links behave differently when the source of the link (what is being linked to) is moved or removed.
-  symbolic links are not updated(they merely contain a string which is the path main of it's target); hard links always refer to the source ,
      even if moved or removed.

   for example , if we have a file a.txt .  if we create a hard link to the file and then delete the file , we can still access the file using
                 hard-link . 
                 but if we create a soft link of the file and then delete the file we can't access the file through soft link and sofft link
                 becomes danglig .
                 basically hard link increases refernce count of a location while soft links work as a shortcut(like in windows).


     hard - links
         -  each hard-linked file is a assigned the same Inode value as the original , therefore they reference the same physical file location .
         -  hard-links more flexible and remain linked even if the original or linked files are moved throughout the file system, althought 
             hard-links aree unable to cross difference file systems.
         -  ls -l command shows all the links with the link column shows number of links.
         -  links have actual file contents.
         -  removing any link just reduces the link count , but doesn't affect other links.
         -  even if we change the filename of the original file then also the hard links properly work.
         -  we cannot create a hard link for a directory to avoid recursive loops.
         -  if original file is removed then the link will still show the content of the file.
         -  the size of any of the hard link file is same as the original file and if we change the content in any of the hard-links the size 
             of all hard links files are updated.
         -  the dis-advantage of hard-links is that it cannot be created for files on diff file systems and it cannot be created for special 
              files or directories.
         -  command to create a hard links : 
               ln [original filename] [link name]


        soft - links 
          -  a soft link is similar to the file shortcut feature which is used in windows os.
          -  each soft linked file contains a seperate Inode value that points to the original file.
          -  as similar to hard disk , any changes to the data in either file is reflected in the other.   
          -  soft links can be linked across diff file systems , althought if the original file is deleted or moved , the soft linked file
                   will not work correctly (called hanging link) . 
          -  ls -l command shows all links with first column value l ? and the link points to original file . 
          -  soft link contains the path for original file and not the contents.
          -  removing soft link doesn't affect anything but removing original file , the link becomes "dangling" link which points to non-existent
                  file.
          -  a soft link can link to a directory . 
          -  the size of the soft link is equal to the length of the path of the original file we gave .
               eg . if we link a file like
               ln -s /tmp/hello.txt /tmp/link.txt then the size of the file will be 14bytes which is equal to the length of the "/tmp/hello.txt"
          -   if we change the name of the original file then all the soft links for that file become dangling i.e they are worthless now  
          -   link across file system : if you want to link file across the file systems, you can only use symlinks / softlinks.

              syntax : ln -s [original filename] [link name]
 



         
     
